# Goal for TODAY

### First Goal - add a `notes` repo under `approvals` github

This repo will be used for note taking during our mobbing sessions.

### Second Goal - Explore an alternative to AnyDesk

-   Specifically - Can we use Gitpod as this shared workspace for our mobbing sessions?
    -   Success criteria:
        -   Python Refactoring tooling is important for us
            -   Maybe we can use a vscode extenssion for that
        -   we should still be able

# Intentions of the Mob

-   First - identify goals and intentions
-   Create a new repo - `notes`
-   `notes` repo already exists - let's find it
    -   The reason it already exists - Llewellyn approved the creation of the repo
-   `notes` repo exists in the `approvals` organization, not the main user account
-   Decision - User AnyDesk to evaluate GitPod (rather than using GitPod to evaluate GitPod).
-   look for an extension for vscode to allow us to refactor python code
-   let's see what refactorings we get out-of-the-box from gitpod
    -   [x] rename
    -   [x] ugly extract var
    -   [x] ugly extract method
    -   [ ] inline

# Language

-   "the six core refactorings"
    -   extract var / method
    -   inline var / method
    -   rename
    -   move
    -   introduce field / param

# hellos

Hello from Nitsan
Hello from Michael - MichaelRWolf@att.net LinkedIn.com/in/MRWolf
Hello from Edward - linkedin.com/in/edwardmichaelgordon
Hello from Annah
Hello from Diana

# Setup

-   We are going to use the TODO.md to record intention

# Choosing Item to work on

-   Nitsan - Inline approvals
-   Jacquilne - More stable alternative to AnyDesk (GitPod? GitHub/Codespaces?)

# Patterns

-   emotions are our body's automatic way to respond to certain situations; e.g. frustrated - I want to protect something that's important to me
-   As the archivist - work in the [gitpod in the browser](https://approvals-notes-z4q2e0iynjs.ws-eu84.gitpod.io/)
-   If people are chatting in the Zoom, it is transient and may not make it into our archive note space
    -   It is a good space for communicating to the entire mob with out interrupting the flow
-   Will try having the last talker, before rotating, add an intention before they finish rotating
-   "Inline" shows up as an adjective, not a verb more often
-   Archivist & archiving: I'm missing the ensemble benefits in the archiving. I feel like if we were ensembling on both, we would gain shared understanding and cross-learning. Strong-style archiving in front of the whole group
-   Archivist is doing their work in the background
    -   What needs tobe written down is not apparent, can we call it out on switch?
        -   What was useful? The first time, I was writing my own little summary. That may not be all that needs to be noted.
        -   It's important to make handoffs as smooth as possible
-   If you have limited monitors, you only look at a single thin
    -   The ensemble should be the same way. Parallelizing work is antithetic to mobbing
    -   Archivist requires multiple screens
-   Want to experience the event rather than documenting it
-   A place where everyone can type and we stop and digest the stream to see if there is anything we want to capture and rephrase
-   Specifically calling out intent contributed to flow
-   EXPERIMENT: Ensemble on the archivist



# Emotions

-   Jacqueline - Frustrations and disappointed that we couldn't get Python refactoring
-   Edward - Frustrations with gitpod environment settings that are preventing me from typing at the speed I normally type
-   Nitsan - Curiosity and Perseverance, will limited Python tooling prevent us from working in this environment
-   Annah - Appreciation
-   Edward - Appreciation for Jacqueline's patience and running the mob and reminding me not to stay out of the facilitation
-   Michael - ~~Frustration~~ during the first hour of the mob
-   Michael - there's good faith in this group, there's care; Annah +1
-   Michael - Awkwardness and confusion at the start; getting more comfortable as it goes on
-   Annah - starting off confused, comfortable as it goes on
-   Annah - getting more comfortable asking Qs - what do I even need to ask? 🤔

# Team


-   When Jacqueline stepping out of the mob, there could be a lack of clarity about how much would be contributed
-   Edward - Would have liked for people to make a commitment to stay in their role, Michael with facilitator experience faciliating as part of the mob
-   Jacqueline as facilitator could have stepped in or done pre-work to make an item-by-item list
-   There may be a need to add more structure as a facilitator for those who are new to ensembling (not new to coding)
    -   Explicit defining of "I'm stepping out of the mob" it means you are Facilitating
    -   Is there a signal for a Facilitator to just tell someone what to do (directing) vs guiding?
        -   "Is it okay if I navigate for a second?"
        -   "Is it okay if I don't just give you the answer? Ask a few guiding questions?"
-   Opportunity to set expectations at the beginning of "Hey, I may at times ask questions instead of just directing"

# Tools

-   Gitpod/VS Code
    -   has a separate Rename Symbol command (F2)
    -   find everywhere in the (Shift+Alt+F12)
    -   Didn't look at Sourcery
    -   Default python gitpod extension by microsoft has limited refactoring capabilities.
    -   Other tools that we looked at gave linters, intellisense and syntax highlighting that aren't refactorings
-   Six core refactorings
    -   Rename
    -   Inline
    -   Extract Method
        -   Extract Variable(?)
    -   Introduce Local Variable
    -   Introduce Parameter
    -   Introduce Field
    -   Move(?)
-   mobti.me Was really nice with a ding sound. Maybe we should do a pr to change the default to a ding  -> Added to TODO.md
-   Programming itself is usually done on this anydesk. It has all the tooling we need, but recently it's not that easy to use, lots of glitches and people keep getting dropped.
-   Talked about github workspaces and potentially hooking up Pycharm to those
-   Could look at anydesk alternatives, but still need EC2 access
# Domain

-   Dancing
    -   In the moment communication
    -   Lead and follow
    -   Switch
    -   Learning so much about technical practices in a dancing context
    -   Talk to the person at their own level
-   Socratic guidance
    -   Street Epistemology
-   3 separate pieces to the problem: Screensharing /sharing control, Cloud workspace, IDE/Tooling that are coupled together 
-   Golden standard is PyCharm. Attempting to play with gitpod and vscode to figure out what's missing
-   Could use IntelliJ connecting to a remote workspace

# Language

# Events

-   Jacqueline announcing she was going to step out of the mob
-   Nitsan and Jacqueline grouped together accelerated the ensemble.
    -   The other people can observe what it looks like when communication is smooth, and they can use latent learning to understand what is happening.
    -   Ensembling in production - provides an oportunity for everyone to model the behaviours they want to see.
    -   Allows you to benefit from diversity - can see one style and decide if you want to adopt. 
        -   Modeling and mimicing
        -   Tie back to dancing - could let newbies struggle, the newbies learn better being split up than by themselves.
    - Nitsan Yes anded Jacqueline and modeled that behaviour that contributed to flow. 1 minute to follow intent, 2 minutes to set the next one

# Surprises

# Themes
    - Ask for consent/Set intent when dealing with new people in the ensemble:
      - I want to ask questions to get you somewhere, is that OK? Or do you just want the answer?
      - I believe your intent is to change this variable. Do you mind if I go ahead and just create the repo?
      - Is It oK if I just navigate?
      - Are you OK if I just do this?