https://mobti.me/bananasplit
Archivist Notes
Links:

Zoom: https://us02web.zoom.us/j/89022110958?pwd=RDBTNDQrblNoc2FMTTdOc01QNVYwdz09
AnyDesk https://go.anydesk.com/ – ID – 172630100
Mobtime: https://mobti.me/bananasplit

Co-authored-by: 
Co-authored-by: 
Co-authored-by: 
Co-authored-by: 
Co-authored-by: Susan Fung <fungsusan88@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Michael R. Wolf <MichaelRWolf@att.net>
Rotation
# TODOs - Explore Pylsp in Gitpod
LSP server running in the Gitpod
We need to pip install pylsp *may not be actual command
Follow palantir repo instructions
Pip install 
pip install pylsp rope
run pylsp
Run the client we found
Do we need to activate virtual env
Configure it to connect to our server


When we hover on something we should see (something) in the editor


Retro - archiving as an ensemble
Impressions
Felt very slow; slower than our usual flow
Breaking flow
Dislike
Having the ensemble discuss what to write down is valuable
Too much process for the value
Exhausted
Proposal - Talker to be responsible for archiving / recording
Have the notes on one screen, and the code on a nother
Questions in notes -> investigate in code
Back and forth
The talker to be responsible for this kind of workflow
Talker: “Typer, in the notes, please add this item to the list”
Talker: “Typer, back to the code - do that”
Probably requires trust
Ask
“I am not responsible for your understanding”
Alternative - Async archivist
Idea - experiment - call for archives at the end of rotation (not turn)
2nd brain
Signifiers - for retrieval
See trends in behavior
Mobbers could write personal notes all the time
Then, can be merged back into the archives when “call for archives” happens
Experiment - Archivist, Director (aka Talker), Typist
Talker can ‘direct’ the archivist in addition to the typist
At the end of a rotation - we merge back personal notes, and reorg
Anyone can take notes at any time
Potential further experiment: Yes and… Pass the baton as the director

Retro - archiving as an ensemble #2
Notes are all over the place and we don’t know where to find all the notes
Do we need threads? Like in slack. A main discussion and a reply
Do multiple headings help, like a by turn archiving thread.
It’s natural for every archivist to have their own style.
If we were to continue, “Yes but let’s change it”


Turn starting 2:20 EST - Michael archiving
Intent: J wants to pip install <something>

Rope lets us refactor

```Pip install pip```
Server is running.
Working from TODO list.
?Can we conf8rm that we’re in virtual environment?
Found gist….  gwpantazes/check-venv.sh…. Sys.prefix == sys.base_prefix
No, we were not.
```virtualenv env; ….```
Yes, we are in virtual environment
… all from github.com/palantir/python-language-server

Summary:
We have installed pylsp.

Pass off intent – 
Turn starting 2:32 – Michael archiving (for Jacqueline)
Where are things installed?  Look deep in env/lib/python….   Got too deep.

Intention to next director – Find vscode client somewhere in …../env/…

Summary for Rotation ended 2:45
Jewels go here to process the raw stuff (AKA “inbox”) from above…
TODO list pattern was useful.
Answering “Where are things installed?” is a valuable question. Maybe we should pursue it.
This FELT faster and better.
Async archival worked for bulk without interrupting flow of group.  Filtering happens later.
By-turn is capturing everything.  By-rotation is distilling.  Expand/Contract pattern.
 gwpantazes/check-venv.sh - how to check if running in virtual environment 


Fluent mob starting 3:07
Nitsan has an idea… 

—-







Inbox
Tools - Get the anydesk bar out of the way - minimize the main window
Tools - Dragging, scrolling - is difficult in anysek
Tools - In gitpod - when pasting into the terminal - need to click “allow” in the browser
Intentions
Let’s see how big a task is this LSP (Language Server Protoco) thing?
https://code.visualstudio.com/api/language-extensions/language-server-extension-guide
https://github.com/microsoft/vscode-extension-samples/tree/main/lsp-sample
In the google search - Palantyr - python language server - maybe there’s something there
Server already exists: https://github.com/palantir/python-language-server
We need the client for VS-Code
Already support for vim(1) and emacs(1) – Let’s see it in action.


Next, have a look at how the language server does the method extraction in emacs
We found something like VS-Code client for pylsp, and we want to try it outOpen up the approval test repo, and gitpod
We want to identify that we are in a virtual environment so we can install the vs code client


Nitsan is the Anonymous Quokka – 


# Summaries
Looked at the instructions & then looked up how to tell if we are in a virtual environment
We wrote a todo list to cover further steps for installing pylsp







# Insights 

## Patterns

We are currently summarizing in the archivist notes during first rotation rather than recording things that surprise us or standout
What’s the difference during a spike between summarizing what we discovered and archiving what we found was important, if anything?
Losing the spontaneity of recording events as they happen, as we’re reflecting collectively which can lead to individual insights getting homogenized with group thought and unexpressed/lost
What’s a strategy to approach this?
Repeatedly hearing “I would like to record this intention / I would like to take this note in the archive”
Is it repeated during the archiving phase? (yes, nothing was lost)
Unclear whether everyone is archiving or just the typer is archiving
We need to discuss whether we are using a strong-style of archiving or everyone is
Benefit is one single focus at a time
Having the entire ensemble discuss what to write down is valuable
Have identified that having a separate time just for archiving after every turn breaks flow and is frustrating and exhausting
Suggested pattern: The talker adds “This is what I am looking at next”

## Tools

EMACs
A very old editor
Gitpod 
Gives you a regular Linux terminal
What is a Shim?
Git clone (link copied of the github repo) - Where?

General discussion early in day
Do we want to use an archivist role?
Nitsan asked to define it.
Jacqueline gave an overview of where it comes from (See Michael Notes)

Ntisan
Collect notes that later on may form a KB for this ensemble
Notes ::== pieces of knowledge, or anything indiscriminate


Proposal (Michael) - We use Google Docs to keep notes during session.  Some may make it into MD during session.  Everything gets pasted into *.md versioned doc by the end of final retro.  Accepted!

Work item proposals
Continue last week’s experiment/proposal.  Break dependence on Llewellyn.  Currently using AnyDesk & GitPod.  This just became a higher level item - LSP & .

Dependencies w/ Llewellyn
Problems (WHAT?)
AnyDesk - Jacquiline’s big pain
Zoom
GitHub repo
Not as safe



Solutions (HOW?)
TeamViewer
Concerns for personal experience where a cryptoransom attack was enacted using TeamViewer
Chrome remote desktop
LogMeIn
VS Code LSP Client - Hackily done (see extra heading below)


Proposal - Use TeamViewer for one complete (6-person) rotation.  Success would look like…. We will ??? at the end.

Success:
Multiple people working on code last same time.  “Working on” means editing w/out too much friction, but some screen sharing,
Connect through browser
Dedicated client is an obstacle.  Negative points.  iPad people are important.
Easy install
Secure
Refactoring tools.  At least the Big 6.  (May be important for future coding, but not critical to decoupling from Llewellyn).  But refactoring IS HUGE.  Would hate working without them.



LSP (Language Server Protocol) – Big enough for its own heading
J did Google search. 3 hours.  Is comfortable doing it.  Can lead it.

Proposal: 2 roles: typist and talker.  At the end of a turn whole mob focuses on archiving. End of full rotation - retro. Accepted.
Rotations


Rotation ending xx:xx
xxxxx




Michael Scribbles
“Building a Second Brain” - Tiago Forte (Michael Carducci has a talk about “personal knowledge management”) – Check authors
Collect
Organize
Distill
Extrac
Edward Scribbles
# Tools
EMACs
A very old editor

# Patterns
Repeatedly hearing “I would like to record this intention / I would like to take this note in the archive”
Is it repeated during the archiving phase?
Person3 Scribbles

Retro
Fluent  mob style felt really good.
Success! Visual cue 
Super happy to see an inlined variable.
Makes others happy to see the happy



Patterns
 summarizing in the archivist notes 
2-3 experiments around archiving - a quick peek into “what would it look like if we…”
Is it enough information to decide?
Do we just need more practise? Are we just bad at it?
We tried baseball, and it didn’t work
What are the expectations of the experiments? Is it a taste? Or are we iterating?
Timeboxing?
How do we know they succeeded?
The Blue Book - Lean Startup.
“Try something and see what happens” - give it a hypothesis so you know if it succeeded
JFDI
Lack of overhead felt better
Archiving at the end of each turn
Edward noticed we were missing the intention of the archivist  role and creating a lot of noise
It is important to categorize and distinguish between the different types of things
Need to trust the process and the team that at some point the notes will be processed and organized for retrieval.”I 
Trusting the ensemble brain is important.  This is difficult if just starting (or just starting on new team).
In high performing ensemble, there are multiple people who can keep us on track. Trust the ensemble brain.
In new ensembles, this is the pattern we are following.  I have experience here.  We are playing baseball.  Give it a try.
Experienced mobbers have soe wisdom that should be trusted by newbies.
— Jacquiline… Did previous few lines capture your intent
Nitsan had another meta angle here.
Talking for Edward:  “As individual, I need ….” (to relive his frustration… of unfulfilled need).
Jacquiline noticed that Dxxxx needs notes, but doesn’t ask for what she needs.
“ see it on your face that something is bothering you “
Follow up with “this is our intention based on what you said”
Archiving at the end of rotations
Emotions
Team
Tools
Domain
Language
Events
Surprises


